CONSOLE-2355: Update Quick Start proposal with i18n (#656)
openshift/enhancements: enhancements/console/quick-starts.md

apiVersion: console.openshift.io/v1
kind: QuickStart
metadata:

>   name: explore-serverless~en

Reviewer: I'd suggest just leaving the postfix off for English Quick Starts. Then we don't have to worry about renaming existing Quick Starts. (We should mention that explicitly below.)

Reviewer 2: I agree. But should we also be accepting of the `en` postfix?

Reviewer 2: i guess at the end of the day the name only matters when we reference quick starts in other fields and try to resolve to the the correct quick start. We should look for both with and without the `en` postfix.

  labels:

>     language: en

Reviewer: This needs to have a namespace prefix. I'd suggest

```suggestion
    console.openshift.io/lang: en
```

take its tour, his access review needs to pass all the listed
resources actions.

#### Quick Start Internationalization

OpenShift can be toggled between multiple languages. The

> Quick Start CRD `spec` contains a `language` field to specify what

Reviewer 3: So this goes with `Have separate ConsoleQuickStart resources for each language and use a label to indicate the language.` approach. Right ?

> Quick Start CRD `spec` contains a `language` field to specify what

Reviewer: Would you hide any QuickStarts that are in English when another language is selected in the UI? It would mean any QuickStarts that haven't been translated yet would be hidden entirely. I think it's probably better to show the English version if it's all we have. But if you always show English QuickStarts, then you will have duplicates potentially when those are also translated. The UI has no way to know that they're the same QuickStarts in different languages.

We might either need all of the translations in one QuickStart resource or a property that says this QuickStart translates another English QuickStart so we can hide the English one.

Author: Yeah, I was thinking we'd hide them, so the duplicate issue wouldn't come up. But if you want to show English ones by default, we need an approach similar to what you mentioned.

> Quick Start CRD `spec` contains a `language` field to specify what

Reviewer: As @jhadvig suggests, we might make this a label so we can exclude other languages from the response using a label query. That's the advantage to having each translation being in a separate resource: you don't request QuickStarts for languages that you don't need.

Reviewer: Another option is to have a console backend endpoint that filters by `spec.language` if we don't need to watch QuickStarts.

Reviewer 3: Thinking if the label would not be sufficient, since the label would be basically the same as the proposed field.
The only thing is that we will need to have it documented, thats the label is required, otherwise the QS won't be fetched.

Reviewer: A missing label could be treated as the default language (English).

I don't think we can require that the label is set since it's effectively API breaking. Existing QuickStarts would disappear on upgrade.

Reviewer 2: I like the idea of using a label so that we can limit the results when fetching resources.

language the Quick Start is in. OpenShift can display the correct
Quick Starts for each language by comparing the value of the

> `language` field to the currently displayed language in OpenShift.

Reviewer: What happens if a QuickStart specifies a language that the rest of the UI doesn't support, but is set as the user's language in the system or browser settings? Should we try to handle that case?

Reviewer 3: Good point, should console maybe have a list of supported languages?

Author: With the approach outlined here, they would only see English Quick Starts. i18next.languages vs. supported languages will output 'en' if your browser is set to German, for example.

Is it something that third-party Quick Start contributors may want? How often do you think it would come up? Making the Quick Start language match OpenShift creates consistency, but you lose the ability to add pockets of different-language content. I can see the value of both approaches (consistent user experience vs. user experience augmented for your language).

#### Quick Start Internationalization

OpenShift can be toggled between multiple languages. The Quick Start
CRD contains an optional `console.openshift.io/lang` label to specify what
language the Quick Start is in. Quick Starts without this label will be treated
as English Quick Starts. OpenShift can display the correct
Quick Starts for each language by comparing the value of the
`console.openshift.io/lang` label to the currently displayed language in OpenShift.
See the [internationalization enhancement proposal](https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/blob/master/enhancements/console/internationalization.md) for more information.
This approach will not handle languages we don't offer support for; if Quick Starts
in non-supported languages become a need, we will need to modify this approach.

The language label must be a two-letter
[ISO 639-2 Language Code](https://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php))
(i.e. "en" for English) or an ISO language code hyphenated with an alpha-2
[ISO-3166 Country Code](https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html)
(i.e. "en-us").

The language is also appended to the name of non-English Quick Starts so we can avoid showing

> duplicates of the same Quick Start content in different languages. The format is

Reviewer: I'd mention that if a Quick Start is not translated into the users' language, the English version will be shown.

> my-quick-start for English and my-quick-start-{language code} for other languages.

Reviewer: Can you show an example YAML snippet with the metadata changes for another language here?

take its tour, his access review needs to pass all the listed
resources actions.

#### Quick Start Internationalization

OpenShift can be toggled between multiple languages. The

> Quick Start CRD `label` contains a `language` field to specify what

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quick Start CRD contains an optional `console.openshift.io/lang` label to specify what
```

> language the Quick Start is in. CRDs without this label will be treated
> as English CRDs. OpenShift can display the correct

Reviewer: I'd say specifically "Quick Starts" here so it's clear this is specific to Quick Starts and not other CRDs.

```suggestion
language the Quick Start is in. Quick Starts without this label will be treated
as English Quick Starts. OpenShift can display the correct
```

Quick Starts for each language by comparing the value of the
`language` label to the currently displayed language in OpenShift.

> (The display language is determined by `localStorage.getItem('bridge/language')`

Reviewer: We might move this to the user settings config map. I would leave this detail out and instead link to the i18n enhancement for more information.

or the output of the comparison between the languages we support
and `i18next.languages`.) This approach will not handle languages we don't
offer support for; if Quick Starts in non-supported languages become a need,
we will need to change this approach.

The language label must be a two-letter
[ISO 639-2 Language Code](https://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php))
(i.e. "en" for English) or an ISO language code hyphenated with an alpha-2
[ISO-3166 Country Code](https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html)
(i.e. "en-us").

The language is also appended to the name of the CRD so we can avoid showing
duplicates of the same CRD content in different languages. The name and language are

> separated by a tilda ("~") so we can split them on a consistent delimiter.

Reviewer: `~` is not typically allowed in k8s names. It's also used as our internal delimiter for group/version/kind in console, so I'd suggest not using it here. I'd say just `my-quick-start-{lang}`. It would be good to show an example YAML metadata with the label and name.

Reviewer 2: Note that if we grow our localization, the language code can be 2 part separated by `-`. Perhaps our name to language code separator should be a `.` instead?
`<name>.fr-FR`

as English Quick Starts.

The optional `console.openshift.io/country` label specifies the alpha-2
[ISO-3166 Country Code](https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html)
(i.e. "gb" for the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland).
Quick Starts without this label will only rely on the `console.openshift.io/lang`
behavior.

The `console.openshift.io/name: explore-serverless` label specifies the name of the
Quick Start. This should be consistent across all translations of a given Quick Start,
as it allows us to avoid showing the same Quick Start content in multiple languages.
If a Quick Start is not translated into a user's language, the English version will be shown.

OpenShift can display the correct
Quick Starts for each language by comparing the value of the
`console.openshift.io/lang` and `console.openshift.io/country` labels to the currently displayed language in OpenShift.
See the [internationalization enhancement proposal](https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/blob/master/enhancements/console/internationalization.md) for more information.
This approach will not handle languages we don't offer support for; if Quick Starts

> in non-supported languages become a need, we will need to modify this approach.

Reviewer 3: What happens when a QS contains a language in the `console.openshift.io/lang` label that we don't support, eg. `cz` for czech? Is there a fallback? Won't those be used at all?
In this case I would suggest no to use, list, ... those Quick Start CRs. Just use those that are are supported, or don't have the label set, which means that they are english.

Author: If we use the existing console approach for i18n, Czech will fall back to English. (We'd be using the same language logic, so the behavior would match.)

We'd get the same ultimate outcome as just using supported languages/Quick Starts that don't have the label set. Happy with either approach.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I would go with fallback to english in both cases 👍

The language is also appended to the name of non-English Quick Starts so we can avoid showing
duplicates of the same Quick Start content in different languages. The format is
my-quick-start for English and my-quick-start-{language code} for other languages.
If a Quick Start is not translated into a user's language, the English version will be shown.

Example Explore Serverless Quick Starts CR snippet for Japanese:
```yaml
apiVersion: console.openshift.io/v1
kind: QuickStart
metadata:

>   name: explore-serverless-{ja}

Reviewer: Sorry, I meant to use `{lang}` as the replacement variable for `ja` (without the braces). Braces are not allowed in most resource names. This is why the YAML snippet really helps :)

```suggestion
  name: explore-serverless-ja
```
